# CubeSat Research

Spacecraft design and development is full of challenges that are unique to space. In order to forecast procedures in case of failures, it is necessary to adopt a rigorous structure for software development. Radiation, for example, can cause bit flips, one of the many single event upsets that can happen in space. Plus, with the numerous CubeSats previously launched, there are quite a few frameworks available to facilitate the deployment of a CubeSat.

## Software development methodology

In order to ensure verifiability and correctness of the software, it is crucial to use one of the time-tested methodologies of software development. Those are centered into deliverables which are essentially different parts of the final product which have been broken down. Many of the more modern methodologies are considered "agile", but there exists many others such as: Waterfall, Prototyping, Iterative and Incremental Development, Spiral Development, Rapid Application Development and Extreme Programming. Noteworthy and up for consideration are the agile, waterfall, iterative and incremental development and spiral development.

Choosing the wrong model for development is a point of failure for many projects and thus it is important to consider the pros and cons of several methodologies before adoption. Agile methodologies work best for smaller projects and while elements of agile can be used and implemented by the different sub-teams in the spacecraft division, the multidisciplinary composition of the teams prevent agile from truly shining. Waterfall can work well with the requirements of the project, but waterfall methodologies limit from task overlap. In order to design efficient and correct programs for the CubeSat, iterative and incremental development, a methodology created in response to the shortcomings of the waterfall model, could be a better fit. By allowing task to be reworked iteratively, things learned from earlier parts of the system carry over. Finally, the spiral model is a risk-driven software development process model and since risk is a big factor in this project, spiral development is a strong contender. The main advantage of the spiral development is the definition of win scenarios for all stakeholders and its flexibility in introducing other methodologies in its layers.

Software correctness can also greatly benefit from two good software development practices: adherance to a uniform set of rules and strong documentation. Rules such as those outlined in the Power of 10 ensures verifiability at every step of the development process and limits runaway code. Documentation ensures that developers and stakeholders are heading in the same direction to accomplish the objectives of a project. Extensive documentation will provide necessary ressources as team members step in and out of the development process, which is especially critical in student-lead project spanning multiple years.

## CubeSats

CubeSats have greatly increased the accessibility of space. Often loaded alongsides primary payloads, CubeSats are usually launched in numbers and each launch provider have their own restrictions. They must be made of certain aluminum alloys in order to prevent the CubeSats from fusing with the launcher due to cold. CubeSats must be able to handle multiple tasks in parallel, such as attitude control, power management, payload operation and primary control tasks. Considering the purpose of Space Concordia's next CubeSat, the ability to "detumble" is crucial so that the CubeSat's instrument can study specific points of interest on Earth.

Past CubeSats have employed many frameworks as their operating system. Most are RTOS, Real-Time Operating Systems. In order for the satellite to communicate effectively with ground control, Space Concordia's CubeSat should also use an RTOS. By knowing the point of launch, it is possible to compute when the satellite will be in line with the ground control's antenna to beam its data. An automatic upload schedule can be implemented only with an RTOS. Notable open-source OSes are FreeRTOS and RTLinux. There are other commercial OS such as KUBOS and Salvo.

Some CubeSat specific processes to be mindful about are to introduce threads and similar protection against bit flip. Also, since newer builds can sometimes break the CubeSat, it is recommended to keep a default build, either a gold build (the one the CubeSat is launched with) or the latest working build, that boots up when the CubeSat is reset. Otherwise, another way is to build 3 layers of software: a bootloader, one containing crucial code such as those enabling ground control to communicate with the satellite and finally a third layer that contains useful code. Only the last layer is ever updated.